
= Resource Tracking : Rwanda On Rails

== For Developers

Currently getting an alpha / minimum viable product done. This should be fairly easy, it's mostly CRUD. After that, we can better focus on working with the local development team. UI work has been using mostly active_scaffold, at this point, though that may change.

Most helpful feature to work on would be a tree interface for selecting codes for a project/activity/line item, along with fields to enter amounts or %'s for that code. No work has been done on that as of yet. Email Greg and he will describe this feature to you.

We may switch to Rails 3 after we have some alpha working.

=== Our Philosophy

Nothing is sacred, be vocal about ways to improve anything we are doing.

=== Google Group

Join the discussion at: http://groups.google.com/group/rwandaonrails

=== Pivotal Tracker

http://www.pivotaltracker.com/projects/59773

Tracker should be public at this point. Click the "Join Project" button after visiting this website to get more than read access.

=== Pairing/Mentoring

Let Greg know if you're available to do some pairing/mentoring! Mega bonus points.

More info on collaborating with local Rwandan team can be got by emailing gregory_nelson@abtassoc.com.

=== Getting Started

==== Fork

Please fork and clone the git repository.

==== RVM

Then install rvm using the instructions below. We use rvm to standardize the Ruby and Gem environments across developers and to help new devs get up and running quickly.

* install RVM if not already installed, see http://rvm.beginrescueend.com/rvm/install/ . Google / ask Greg if you have trouble.
* cd resource_tracking
* git checkout master
* rvm install ree
* rvm ree-1.8.7-2010.02

Now we'll import the rvm gemset from default.gems.
* rvm gemset create ree-1.8.7-2010.02@resource_tracking
* rvm gemset import resource_tracking

Note: if you have an error with database gem you won't be using, you can ignore it.

==== Local DB

* cp config/database.yml.sample config/database.yml
# edit config/datbase.yml per your environment.  This file is not tracked by git.
# create .rvmrc file so whenever we cd to RAILS_ROOT we are using the right Ruby version and gem set.
* echo 'rvm ree-1.8.7-2010.02@resource_tracking' > .rvmrc
* rake setup
* script/server

==== Feature Dev

Now you can choose a feature for the alpha, developing on a local feature branch (as per: http://reinh.com/blog/2009/03/02/a-git-workflow-for-agile-teams.html).

Let Greg / the mailing list know if you have any questions.


==== Deploying to Heroku

We keep sensitive env-specific settings in config/settings.secret.yml, which is not in the repo.

So without this file, to deploy, we autogenerate the config environment vars for Heroku and load them up for the Heroku environments to work properly.

The heroku:vars rake task does all the automagic for you. First you generate the scripts from the "secret" settings yml;

  $ APP_NAME=stormy-ice-24  rake heroku:vars:setup

Then using the autogenerated script, you load the config vars up into your heroku environment;

  $ rake heroku:vars:load

(this script is just a bunch of "heroku config:add key=val" commands). You can verify your config with;

  $ heroku config

    RACK_ENV         => production
    SITE_DESCRIPTION => Health Resource Tracking & Planning
    SITE_NAME        => Resource Tracker


=== Tests/TDD

BDD, TDD and

  $ rake test

before every commit, and after every fetch, is your friend.

==== Setup

On your dev environment, you'll need to install a few gems;

  $ RAILS_ENV=cucumber rake gems:install

=== Running Tests

==== Cucumber Features

  $ cucumber features

==== RSpec

  $ spec spec

==== Contributing

Write tests then write code. Have fun while improving your craft.